src/content/docs/guides/development/network/minecraft-wireguard.md, before:

---
title: Debugging Minecraft Network Traffic
description: How to debug minecraft network traffic with wireguard
---

This document describes how to debug Minecraft network traffic to inspect how packets are sent.

## Prerequisites

First, **encryption and compression must be disabled**.
The compression threshold should be set to **1024**.
You can find it in this file `config/steel_config.json5`, which will be generated after the first start.

You will need:

* A **local Minecraft server**
* **Wireshark** running with root privileges (or proper permissions) to capture traffic on `localhost`

Captured packets can be compared with the official protocol documentation:
[https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets)

This helps to understand all packet types and what they describe.

## Wireshark Setup

You can start Wireshark immediately and observe the packets, but for better readability it is recommended to compile and
use a **Wireshark dissector plugin**.

### Minecraft Wireshark Dissector

Repository:
[https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Dissector](https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Dissector)

Requirements:

* **Wireshark 4.6** (recommended)

The best recommendation is to compile the plugin yourself using the instructions in the `ci.yaml` file of the
repository.

**For Linux:**\
After compilation, copy the generated `.so` file to:

```bash
~/.local/lib/wireshark/plugins/<Wireshark Version>/epan
```

**For Windows:**\
After compilation, copy the generated `.dll` file to:
```bash
plugins/<Wireshark Version>/epan
```

Adjust the path according to your Wireshark version.

### Protocol Data Repository

Clone the protocol data repository:

[https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Protocol_Data](https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Protocol_Data)

## Wireshark Configuration

Start Wireshark (on Linux, for loopback capture, your user must be in the `wireshark` group).

Then navigate to:

**Preferences → Protocols → MCJE**

Select the protocol and set the path to the cloned `MC_Protocol_Data` repository.
After that, **restart Wireshark**.

## Useful Display Filter

To get a better overview of Minecraft traffic, use this filter:

```
tcp.port == 25565 || udp.port == 25565
```

## Result

At the end, the packets will be **far more readable** than raw network data, making protocol debugging much easier.

![Wireshark view](../../../../../assets/wireshark_output.webp "Minecraft packet dissector output")

## Another useful resources

These resources can you help to get a deeper understanding:

- [Decompiled Minecraft](../../../getting-started/decompile-minecraft)
- [https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets)

Commit message:

docs: again wide content and added one line in wireguard guide

src/content/docs/guides/development/network/minecraft-wireguard.md, after:

---
title: Debugging Minecraft Network Traffic
description: How to debug minecraft network traffic with wireguard
---

This document describes how to debug Minecraft network traffic to inspect how packets are sent with wireguard.

If you don't want to use wireguard then this project can come in handy for you: [https://github.com/adepierre/SniffCraft](https://github.com/adepierre/SniffCraft)

## Prerequisites

First, **encryption and compression must be disabled**.
The compression threshold should be set to **1024**.
You can find it in this file `config/steel_config.json5`, which will be generated after the first start.

You will need:

* A **local Minecraft server**
* **Wireshark** running with root privileges (or proper permissions) to capture traffic on `localhost`

Captured packets can be compared with the official protocol documentation:
[https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets)

This helps to understand all packet types and what they describe.

## Wireshark Setup

You can start Wireshark immediately and observe the packets, but for better readability it is recommended to compile and
use a **Wireshark dissector plugin**.

### Minecraft Wireshark Dissector

Repository:
[https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Dissector](https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Dissector)

Requirements:

* **Wireshark 4.6** (recommended)

The best recommendation is to compile the plugin yourself using the instructions in the `ci.yaml` file of the
repository.

**For Linux:**\
After compilation, copy the generated `.so` file to:

```bash
~/.local/lib/wireshark/plugins/<Wireshark Version>/epan
```

**For Windows:**\
After compilation, copy the generated `.dll` file to:
```bash
plugins/<Wireshark Version>/epan
```

Adjust the path according to your Wireshark version.

### Protocol Data Repository

Clone the protocol data repository:

[https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Protocol_Data](https://github.com/Nickid2018/MC_Protocol_Data)

## Wireshark Configuration

Start Wireshark (on Linux, for loopback capture, your user must be in the `wireshark` group).

Then navigate to:

**Preferences → Protocols → MCJE**

Select the protocol and set the path to the cloned `MC_Protocol_Data` repository.
After that, **restart Wireshark**.

## Useful Display Filter

To get a better overview of Minecraft traffic, use this filter:

```
tcp.port == 25565 || udp.port == 25565
```

## Result

At the end, the packets will be **far more readable** than raw network data, making protocol debugging much easier.

![Wireshark view](../../../../../assets/wireshark_output.webp "Minecraft packet dissector output")

## Another useful resources

These resources can you help to get a deeper understanding:

- [Decompiled Minecraft](../../../getting-started/decompile-minecraft)
- [https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_protocol/Packets)
